date August seventh nineteen ninety six survivor Robert Greenwald interviewer surely Berenstain city and state New York New York country United States of America language English okay my name is Shirley Berenstain S. H. I. R. L. E. Y. B. E. R. E. N. S. T. E. I. N. it's August seventh nineteen ninety six I'm interviewing survivor Robert Greenwald in Washington Heights New York City I mean can you tell me your name please Robert Greenwald and can you spell that please G. R. U. N. W. A. LD your name at birth was Robert Greenwald yes and your date of birth please August thirtieth nineteen twenty three and how old are you now I'm now twenty seventy two years old and the city and country of your birth Vienna Austria and can you spell the end off chip please V. and although the names of your parents my father's name was Max Maximilian US sisters and brothers yes I have a they're in the house that the house of the apartment that your family has but %HESITATION otherwise it's %HESITATION it's still existing today did your family live in we have had is saying it was about did you ever go and help out in the store when you were real little or you were too young I I was there %HESITATION maybe %HESITATION twice as far as I remember and he had to start together with his brother going to the synagogue of a little boy father sure I do remember that I have a %HESITATION a %HESITATION often we went to so as often as possible what was your favorite Jewish holiday as a child that you remember that you have one I have a favorite %HESITATION Jewish holiday at that time movies close did you have a step in the problem yes it on the coat did you have a sticker in your family home more what kind of books when one finding your father's house in your father mother's house well their newspapers did your father read the newspaper yes suit in the newspapers the German newspapers they came into the house is whether any Jewish newspapers in when you were yeah %HESITATION what when did you start going to school when did you start going to school in Vienna I was six years old that was in nineteen twenty nine can I started to in the area and the %HESITATION Jewish %HESITATION you said that you were seven when you left me a note what with this sense of if you're living I mean the reason for leaving was my father became very sick he %HESITATION it was sick with cancer what did you understand about about this change for you when your annual eye on this and %HESITATION I was always told that I was %HESITATION yeah pretty bad boy what in nineteen thirty when you first came today where did you start going to school I. A.'s started going that actually the second grade the style that %HESITATION and your uncle and aunt were as orthodox did you make friends isn't much time what was your contact with your parents and your family back in during that time was %HESITATION where we %HESITATION and you were told about his death I was told us about his that is %HESITATION yes because I had to say kaddish did you write letters at all to your other siblings your brothers and sisters there was there any contact as such how did your mother do you know how your mother was handling after father died her affairs some of them might suit is six years old sh and she was fighting out that was in nineteen thirty four what happened to your sister and your two brothers when she died a cyst on my two brothers which who lived %HESITATION uncles at home so my brother on my older brother was that time %HESITATION where can I can tell you when the next tape mmhm 